In this section we'll learn how to send e-mails with lateral and this is actually very very easy.
So let's get straight to the point and first talk about the configuration options and default configuration
for sending emails through Lavell so open their mail BHP file on the conflict folder and let's take
a look.
So the first and the most important setting we need to know about is the male driver.
So this will specify how our e-mails would be sent.
So you can see even here on the comment what drivers are supported.
So there is the SMP P which is basically what you use when you are sending emails using your email account.
Then there is send mail program.
This is a program running on Unix systems and of course there are also cloud options available like
male gun man the real Amazon says spark post and two other options log and array used only for development
which we want to even cover because there are much better options to test sending emails on your development
machine so starting with the drivers setting you can see that most or even all of the options configurable
here are configured using the environment variables.
So on your normal server you will have those environment variables set for your system.
But here on the development machine we have everything inside the DOT and file so you can find those
settings in your dot and file.
Now the default mode driver is the S&P.
This is what we will be using.
We will actually use a service called mail trap where you can send our dummy emails and then see them
like you would in a normal email client.
So there are also more configuration options for example you can configure the host.
This will be the host for your SMP server.
So don't worry about that.
We will configure everything in a moment.
Next option is of course the port.
Now the from option lets you specify the email address and the name of that e-mail.
Others from which all the emails would be sent globally using your application.
So this usually would be your customer facing email.
So for example we have a domain.
A lot of that test.
So this might be something like customer at larval test.
Also the name can be well anything.
Name of your application something that will be sent to the customers.
So they will know where did.
Who did they got got this e-mail from.
Now optional you can specify the mail encryption.
Let's just leave the default option for now.
And then finally there is user name and password which would be used for the SMP server optional you
can also configure a path to the send mail program.
Don't worry about this at all because this is only applicable to Unix systems.
And well we are still in development environment.
We are just learning.
So if you are on Windows you won't even have this.
So don't worry about up.
Now the next options we have is regarding markdown markdown is type of templating system letting you
easily write some text which might also be visual.
If you do not know what markdown is.
Also don't worry about that.
I will mention that later.
And finally there is the log channel which specifies where every event regarding sending the emails
should be logged.
So by default it is logging to whatever was defined in the environment variable may look channel.
Now we've covered the basics.
Now let's go ahead.
Set up a may trap account so we can catch all the e-mails that came out from our application and we
will set this up right now.
And in the next lecture we will be already sending our fairest e-mail.
So obviously I will talk a little bit more about e-mails how to attach files and all related stuff regarding
e-mails.
But I want to get you set up as quickly as possible so we can see how easy it is to send e-mails throughout
the lot of application so after talking about the basics now let's go ahead and visit this link HDP
has male trap dot I O and sign up so you can also use the logging option and I suggest logging using
Google account or the github account.
This would be much faster.
So let me do that.
I will log in using my Google account and this immediately creates an account for me.
So if you have any troubles then you can also sign up and choose any other registering options that
mail drop requires.
It's a free service.
So basically we'll get a demo inbox which will be totally enough for our needs.
Now if you will visit this demo inbox what you see right now is their credentials that we need to set
up our SMP server so everything that we send would be sent directly to this mail trap and we will see
emails on the left well their subjects.
And when you click those email you will then see the preview of what was sent.
So let's go ahead and first copy the host value go to the visual studio code and what we have right
here is the main driver is as MVP by default we might even have SMP Pete may trap yo.
But anyway let's modify that the path is to five to five which is valid.
Then you need to copy your username and password.
So please do not copy mine.
Just use your own
so email password and basically that's enough.
We have the same T.P. server setup and in the next lecture we'll actually see how we create and send
emails in larval and we'll send the first email which would be after someone has posted a comment on
a blog post that I have written so soon the next lecture.